- In a 12-factor application, there is no separate
container handling the requests and responses
for your application.
Your application needs to handle the protocols
of communication, but when writing your application,
you don't know how it will be executed,
so you would have to assume the defaults.
To solve the challenge of multiple processes
in the same OS container, running the same protocol,
the 12-factor patterns use a strategy of port binding.
Each process has its communication protocols bound
to a usually non-standard port, allowing it run
in a container in an isolated fashion.
One of the first questions that might arise is how
does a development team deal with all of this?
And the answer is you don't.
When in a development environment, you leverage
some form of manual port binding, either providing
the port as an environment variable locally,
or through a command line parameter.
Once in a deployment environment, however,
your application is served its messages
through a routing technology that handles
the communications.
Now, enabling port binding is often, once again,
a framework, or pattern, to solve.
As such, the migration of legacy applications
to 12-factor in this world may require
some additional dependencies.
Often, higher level languages will have frameworks
that allow your application to manage the ports when needed.
Most of these options do rely on dependency injection type
technologies and patterns.
One of the cool parts of port binding is what you can
do with it in a development situation, or in my case,
often a presentation environment.
These benefits transition to the real world as well,
so its usage isn't futile.
Let me walk through a simple scenario here.
I am trying to explain in Java how to do cloud native
applications for another course.
In doing so, I am running multiple applications at once,
some offering services that I write, some offering services
that were written by third parties.
Now, by leveraging port binding, I can run all
of the applications on my local system,
and I have no need for VMs.
In addition, I can offer the services to applications
that are also running, and this is where
the real benefit comes in.
Your services can become backing services for another
application in the same framework, in the same operating
system, because of the port bindings.
Now, you can leverage the configuration of the producer
application to advertise the port information
of the consumer.
Ultimately, you're letting the framework or the container
handle the port binding so that you don't have to.